Docker file:
----------------
FROM centos
RUN yum install java -y
RUN mkdir /opt/tomcat/
WORKDIR /opt/tomcat
ADD https://dlcdn.apache.org/tomcat/tomcat-9/v9.0.54/bin/apache-tomcat-9.0.54.tar.gz /opt/tomcat
RUN tar xvfz apache*.tar.gz
RUN mv apache-tomcat-9.0.54/* /opt/tomcat 
EXPOSE 8080
CMD ["/opt/tomcat/bin/catalina.sh", "run"]

keyword:
----------------
FROM - A valid Dockerfile must start with a FROM instruction.
RUN - The RUN instruction will execute any commands in a new layer on top of the current image and commit the results. The resulting committed image will be used for the next step in the Dockerfile.
CMD - The main purpose of a CMD is to provide defaults for an executing container.

Note: There can only be one CMD instruction in a Dockerfile. If you list more than one CMD then only the last CMD will take effect.
Note - Do not confuse RUN with CMD. RUN actually runs a command and commits the result; CMD does not execute anything at build time, but specifies the intended command for the image.

LABEL -The LABEL instruction adds metadata to an image. A LABEL is a key-value pair. T

EXPOSE-The EXPOSE instruction informs Docker that the container listens on the specified network ports at runtime.
To set up port redirection on the host system, see using the -P flag.
The docker network command supports creating networks for communication among containers without the need to expose or publish specific ports, because the containers connected to the network can communicate with each other over any port.
ENV - The ENV instruction sets the environment variable to the value .
ADD - The ADD instruction copies new files, directories or remote file URLs from and adds them to the filesystem of the image at the path .
If is a local tar archive in a recognized compression format (identity, gzip, bzip2 or xz) then it is unpacked as a directory.

COPY - The COPY instruction copies new files or directories from and adds them to the filesystem of the container at the path .
ENTRYPOINT - An ENTRYPOINT allows you to configure a container that will run as an executable.
ENTRYPOINT will override all elements specified using CMD
Both CMD and ENTRYPOINT instructions define what command gets executed when running a container. There are few rules that describe their co-operation.

Dockerfile should specify at least one of CMD or ENTRYPOINT commands.
ENTRYPOINT should be defined when using the container as an executable.
CMD should be used as a way of defining default arguments for an ENTRYPOINT command or for executing an ad-hoc command in a container.
CMD will be overridden when running the container with alternative arguments.
VOLUME - The VOLUME instruction creates a mount point with the specified name and marks it as holding externally mounted volumes from native host or other containers.
USER - The USER instruction sets the user name to use when running the image
WORKDIR - The WORKDIR instruction sets the working directory for any RUN, CMD, ENTRYPOINT, COPY and ADD instructions
ARG - The ARG instruction defines a variable that users can pass at build-time to the builder with the docker build command using the --build-arg = flag.
SHELL - The SHELL instruction allows the default shell used for the shell form of commands to be overridden.
-----------------------------------

Docker compose: is a toll used to define and run multi container docker application.Its uses a YAML file(dcoekr-compose.yml) to specify service, network, 
and volume for an application.
 
Docker swarm: Is container orchastration tool build in docker engine. its allow user to craete and manage a cluster of docker Host called nodes,
to deploy and scale containerized applcaions across multiple machines. And provide features for service discovery, load balancing, and high availbility.

Dcoker volumes: is managed by docekr and persist data even docker stopped or removed.
Dcoekr binding: Link the diracotry to the host machine to a directory in the container allowing direct access to files.
Docker Hub: is cloud based repository for storing and sharing docekr images. offers feature like automated builds, image versoning, and integration with 
CI/CD pipelines.

Docekr Network: its allow container to communicate with each other and with external networks default is Bridge adapter.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R2ubUa5kZxU

	  
